---
title: Constitution
---

*Note: this is a copy of the official group constitution. The OSE-approved copy
can be found on
[CardinalEngage](https://cardinalengage.stanford.edu/feeds?type=club&type_id=44789&tab=home).*

---

## Dancebreak Constitution

Version Date: *1/9/2020*

 
## Article 1: Name
 
Dancebreak
 
## Article 2: Purpose
 
The goal of Dancebreak is to make social dance more accessible to Stanford
University students. We seek to provide an opportunity for fun, high-level
social dancing which requires little to no previous experience of any dance
form and welcome beginners. We hold weekly practices and encourage
experimentation in creating new Stanford-based dances as well.
 
The purpose of Dancebreak is to build a community of social dance enthusiasts
and share opportunities to learn, practice, perform, and enjoy social dance. We
encourage dancers of all levels to interact and teach each other, and we
provide opportunities for people to expand their dance repertoire beyond the
classroom.
 
## Article 3: Activities and scope
 
The primary activity of our group is a weekly dance event during which we
create a friendly atmosphere for people of all levels to enjoy social dance.
These events are open to all Stanford students, and we welcome newcomers
throughout any time of the year. We are a mixture of undergraduate and graduate
students. We particularly encourage participation by students enrolled in the
social dance classes taught at Stanford, by announcing Dancebreak in those
classes and focusing sessions on what was taught in those classes the week
prior.
 
We also encourage members to arrange and attend other related events to help
build the community feel within the group, such as DJing their own social dance
events, and teaching social dance to members of the greater Stanford community.
 
## Article 4: Membership
 
We are proud to welcome any Stanford student with an interest in social dance
to our group and do not require any background experience in ballroom dancing
or any dance form. Our group is a mix of undergraduate and graduate students.
We are also a mix of students who have either taken or are currently taking
social dance classes at Stanford, as well as other students with interest in
social dance.
 
To keep track of members we use CardinalSync (the current OSE group management
website) and our mailing list.
 
Only currently registered Stanford students are eligible to become voting
members, and must be registered on CardinalSync. We have no dues, auditions, or
attendance requirements, although attendance will be considered for officer
elections. Only officers have work responsibilities at events, although
volunteers are always appreciated. Officers for the following year will be
elected in late Spring and must be registered as a student for the following
academic year.
 
We expect that removal of a member will be a very rare incident, although
should this come up we have the following process: if a member feels
uncomfortable about the presence of another member at a weekly dance event or
other campus-based activity, they should bring this to the attention of one of
the officers. The officers will discuss and if seen fit will give the offending
member a warning. If the offending member does not improve their behavior by
the next event, they will be asked to leave, and will be removed from the
mailing list and CardinalSync, if applicable.
 
## Article 5: Leadership/Officers
 
Our group has three official officer positions: President, Vice President, and
Financial Officer. To be eligible, officer candidates must be a registered
student during the year in which they serve, be registered on CardinalSync, and
have a strong attendance at weekly practices. Officer election for the
following year will occur in late spring, and will serve starting after the
current academic year has ended (beginning of summer) until the following
academic year ends.
 
The positions and responsibilities are explained as follows:
 
**President:** handles organizational and logistical issues by registering and
staying in the loop with OSE (the student group leadership, currently using
CardinalSync as their web interface), booking the room for every dance event,
and keeping documents updated.
 
**Vice President:** in charge of getting information about our events to the
public and general assistance to the president.
 
**Financial Officer:** works on getting money from ASSU and GSC to support
mostly room fees and any other costs for events.
 
For elections, the group will be notified of an upcoming election and call for
interested members. Any eligible interested member should inform the current
officers and will be considered for a position. If considered qualified, they
will become a candidate for that position. If there are no other candidates for
a position, then that individual will be selected. If there are multiple
candidates for a position, an anonymous voting system will be arranged either
online or in-person, and only Stanford students will be eligible to vote. Once
selected, the current president will be responsible for re-registering the new
officers on CardinalSync. In addition, the upcoming Financial Officer will be
required to attend the mandatory OSE financial orientation meetings.
 
Should a current officer be considered by another officer or group member to be
inadequately carrying out the specified responsibilities for the position, an
officer (or second officer) should be contacted. All officers should meet to
discuss the responsibilities of the position and involvement of the current
officer. If after a period of two weeks the complaints about responsibilities
remain, the officers will meet again to discuss and ask the officer to step
down. The remaining officers may shuffle positions if desired (although
additional training may be required for the Financial Officer position), and
then an email will be sent to the entire group explaining that the officer has
chosen to step down due to exterior conflicts and the same officer election
process as before will be used to select a candidate for the single position.
 
## Article 6: Decision making
 
Any decision affecting the entire group will be put up to vote for all eligible
voting members. Advance notice will be given, then voting will be conducted and
a simple majority will be required to pass. Decisions should adhere to the
purpose and disposition of the group.
 
## Article 7: Dissolution
 
Dissolution must be voted on by 70% of all members in order to pass. In the
event that the group becomes dissolved, all funds will pass back to the ASSU or
GSC, depending on source.
 
## Article 8: Amendment of constitution

Any amendments made to the constitution must be agreed upon by all current
officers as well as a simple majority of voting-eligible group members. The
president will be responsible for updating the constitution on CardinalSync
after obtaining approval from OSE.
