---
title: History
---

Dancebreak began in Fall 2005, as "Faster Polka" because we loved faster-tempo
music than was normally played at Jammix and Friday Night Waltz, especially
polkas. (Also, we assumed it would force us to come up with a better name.) In
those days, each quarter Richard Powers taught non-Stanford social dance series
courses that were open to both students and the outside community on Thursday
nights, 7-10pm. In addition, Roble Gym closed at 10:50pm. This left the big
studio unused for the final 50 minutes (since no group wanted the space at that
late hour for such short a block of time). When we realized that, we asked for
(and received) permission from Richard to stay after his class and use the big
studio. This provided us a nice, if short, weekly dance where we decided what
music to play and dances to dance. 5 weeks into the quarter, Richard's courses
would conclude, and because no other group was already reserving the big studio
for Thursday nights, we could make our start time earlier, thus enjoying an
even-longer weekly dance of our own!

In Spring 2009, concerned we were giving people the wrong impression about our
focus (and possibly unintentionally intimidating them), we finally renamed
ourselves â€” to "Dancebreak."

Richard's non-Stanford classes moved off-campus in Winter 2010, and other
groups wanted Thursday nights too, so we chose to try different nights. We have
mostly alternated between Monday and Wednesday nights, with Mondays being
preferred due to potential conflict with other dance events on other
weeknights.

We became an official Voluntary Student Organization in Fall 2013, thanks to
the efforts of Tatiana Kuzovleva (BS 2015), who became our first president.
Roble Gym was scheduled to be closed for a long-overdue renovation starting
Summer 2013 (the renovation actually began 1 year late). Although this didn't
immediately affect us (Dancebreak holds regular sessions only during the
academic year), it forced us to look for alternative space on campus, many of
which were unavailable except to student groups (or charged fees). That
motivated us to become an actual student group.

In the final weeks of Winter 2020, we went on indefinite hiatus due to the
[COVID-19
pandemic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2019%E2%80%9320_coronavirus_pandemic).
After Santa Clara County (which includes Stanford) issued its ["shelter in
place"
orders](https://www.sccgov.org/sites/phd/DiseaseInformation/novel-coronavirus/Pages/order-health-officer-031620.aspx),
the University immediate decided to [follow
them](https://healthalerts.stanford.edu/2020/03/16/stanford-update-for-monday-evening-march-16/),
effectively emptying the campus (all undergraduate students were required to
leave campus housing).

Luckily, Dancebreak survived the pandemic.  Once the risks of infection had
dropped to acceptable levels as determined by university and county guidelines,
and the best judgement of the officers, we resumed our weekly meetings.

Dancebreak's focus has changed over the years. Originally, most attendees were
dancers in Richard's 9pm class, which was usually intermediate-level. Thus we
tended to play music for intermediate level dancing (such as faster polkas, a
particular favorite of the early crowd). After Richard started holding his
non-Stanford classes off-campus, and especially after the early attendees
graduated, we shifted our focus to being a practica for Richard's Stanford
dance classes, in order to help and encourage new dancers to discover a love
and passion for social dancing like the original dancers had.  After the
pandemic, we have focused on being a hub for the many different kinds of social
dance popular at Stanford, and a shared community for undergraduate and
graduate students alike.
